Hello everyone and welcome to list views and detail views.
We've learned how to use class based views to directly show a template but what about models in your
application.
Often when you have models we want to either list the records from the model or show details of a single
record in that model's database.
And previously we did this with calls using the object relation mapper directly.
And that was back when we were doing things such as calling my model objects all that's how he used
to connect a template to an actual call to the model to show information from the database.
However you can imagine that these sort of operations are very common and they're so common that Shingo
has some generic view classes you can inherit from two actually very quickly display information from
your model.
And this is where the power of class based views really comes to help us out.
So if you haven't been convinced yet that class based views are worth the tiny bit of extra effort after
this lecture I really think your opinion is going to change and you probably never want to go back to
function based views.
OK so in this lecture we're going to be doing is quickly creating some new models to actually show off
these features as well as some need templates and then we're going to focus on two generic views which
is the list view and the detailed view.
So far we've only seen the view and template you know we're going to learn about List View and detail
view which will allow us to connect to the models which we're going to be creating.
Also in this lecture and then previously we've been putting all our templates inside the templates folder
within the matching app folder.
And what we're also going to do and this lecture is show you the common practice which is essentially
the reverse have a template folder inside of the Applications folder.
So say another way.
Previously we had that templates folder and then inside of that you had your matching application folder
and then inside of that you had those dot h team l files.
It's really common in the real world to have essentially the reverse way.
So under your application folder that has its own templates folder and under that you have that each
team all files.
So we're going to show example of doing that in this lecture as well.
And it's going to basically set you up to be able to read other real world projects so if you're ever
browsing get a hub and see someone's Shingo project most likely they'll be using class based views especially
lists and detail view and they'll have the template structure that we're going to show in this lecture.
OK.
So there's a lot to cover.
Let's get started by helping over to the Adam text editor.
All right.
So the first thing to actually show a list view and a detailed view is to create the models that they're
going to report back.
So let's come over to models up high in our basic app folder and let's create those models.
I'm going to try to mimic some sort of school administration Web site so maybe we'll have a class school
and that will say models that model and then we're going to have three fields will have a name of the
school and they will be models and there will be a character field and we can give you the max length
if you want to say 256 doesn't really matter for our case.
And then every school also has a principal that school and will say models start at character field.
And what the heck.
Let's also give it a max length for that principal's name.
And then every school is also going to have location models.
That's also a character field.
We'll give it a max length 256 as well.
And then if we remember from talking about models we usually want to have a string representation of
that model in case we ever want to print it out.
So create that special method SDR and I will say return self-taught name.
All right.
Looking good on that school.
And schools have students.
So let's create another model we'll call it class students.
Let me make a couple new lines here so we can see this all typed out.
And then all inherit from models that model.
And let's give these students three fields so the student themselves are going to have a name won't
worry about last name or first name just keep things simple right now and let's give the students name
a max length of 256 as well.
I'm choosing that number arbitrarily.
All right.
And another attribute a student can have is an H.
Now we're going to do is call models and something we haven't seen before as a field is the positive
integer field.
You make sure you spell it right integer field.
And we don't provide any more arguments there because basically what the positive integer field is you
may have guessed just is a positive integer.
Makes sense because Agias can't be negative.
And since these are essentially we'll call them elementary school kids we don't care if are eleven point
five years old we'll just say they're either 11 12 cetera and each student is going to be assigned to
school and that will be then a foreign key field because we want it to match up to the school object
that peer to school model I should say which means we pass in school and we can also passen in related
name parameter that will allow us to call this later on so we'll say it related name students and let's
have a string.
So if you have a printout a student will probably just return the student's name.
Self-tanning look at pretty simple stuff here.
You have the school model has a name a principal location and then we have name age and school for the
student.
And that's basically it.
Now we want to do is register these in are adamant that PI file.
So let's open up admin that PI under basic app and I will import from basic app the models import school
karma student and then I will call adamant that site thought register in its lowercase and all pasand
school and we're going to do the same thing for student so adamant that site register student.
That way I can just quickly call the admin and add some students in at some schools.
You can also create a population that py file to auto populate this using faker.
But things are just simple right now.
Focus on the class based views.
So I'll just do those manually in the admin in order to confirm that this all worked and won't create
a super user startup my server.
And then actually add some students and schools to this.
So first thing I want to do is say Python managed up high and migrate OK perfect.
And then I'll say Python told me to say make migrations this makes sense will say make migrations basic.
Underscore app enter.
It created the model school created the model student perfect and also a python managed up high and
migrate one more time and it's applying all those migrations looks like it worked out well.
Finally I want to create a supervisor.
Python managed up-I create super Lapsley make sure you spell that right.
Create super user will say Jose whatever password is fine.
Hello at gmail dot com password.
All use test password and I'll type that in again.
Great.
So now my super users are ready to go.
I've migrated to databases.
Let's add in some schools and students make sure everything's working properly.
I'll type in Python managed up-I run the server and then bring in my browser OK bring in that browser.
I can still see stuff from the template view.
We're going to change this later on but what I'm more concerned about is going to that admin page.
Perfect Genger administration.
Let's log in
and then we can see here we have schools and students so I will do it.
I'm going to add some schools and add some students to the schools so let's create a school or call
this school AUPs for school principal Mr. John wherever and I will say it's based in San Francisco.
Or let's just say Frank because I don't want to say too much and I will say that.
Let me expand this all the way and create one more school.
We'll call this new second school principal say Mrs. Smith and its location will say New York.
Obviously it doesn't really matter what values we put in here.
So there are first schools come back to basic app and let's add in some students going to add a student
and first student we'll just call them out call him Mikey or Mike whatever 10 years old and I'm going
to assign them to a school from the Strabane menu.
Mikey goes that first school.
Now let's add two students per school.
So how John will be 12 years old also goes the first school.
Save that and then let's come back up here.
Whoops.
Actually let's stay at students and we'll put in some more students we'll say Lauren is 11 years old
and we'll have her go to new second school and then at a student and I'll call Sarah whenever.
9 years old doesn't really matter.
Second school.
So I signed two girls name to the second school that way I make sure that everything is working when
I work a stuff on the front end and I assigned two boys name to the first school.
It really doesn't matter.
It should be apparent to you however you do this.
So we'll come back home.
Everything's ready to go.
I'm going to log out and then let's jump back into the Adam text editor and continue by actually working
at the class based views and then pointing to your ELSE to them.
All right so as I mentioned in the slides portion of this lecture it's very common to have the templates
folder underneath the application those templates belong to.
So we're going to show that paradigm of creating the templates folder.
That way instead of just having a single template with the base files.
So what we're going to do is we'll keep base T.M. an index that each team will under the templates folder.
Note that they're not underneath a subdirectory of the basic app.
Instead we'll say that templates that relate to the basic application are going to be under neath their
own templates folder.
So we will say basic app new folder and we'll call it templates and then it's also common that underneath
this templates you add in another folder that matches the application name now there's various ways
to do this.
And what I would recommend that you actually check the documentation page on different conventions and
there's also a great book called two scoops of Django which has its own conventions for setting up a
project and setting up file formats.
And there's also something called cookie cutter Django that you may also want to google and check out
which kind of shows some boiler plate Gengel.
Again this is kind of a thing where it's your own personal preference.
So what I don't want to actually give any hard guidelines here on you have to do it this way.
It really depends on the scope of your project and how self-contained you want applications to be.
So this method the applications are a little more self-contained because the templates are going to
be underneath the applications folder which is nice if we intend to use this application for other projects.
But if you're doing a small project maybe you don't need all of this so keep that in mind.
There's no right or wrong way to do step here.
OK.
Continuing on underneath this basic folder I'll create three new files I'll create some basic app base
that H T.M. that I will extend from.
And then also create a new file and I'll create a school detail that HTML file and then I'm also going
to create a school list file.
So when you file school list age T.M..
So those are three female files.
Now what I'm going to do right now is player on this team as files and make sure everything is set up
for those class based use in order to actually do that.
We have to create those class based views.
So let's hop back over to views that pi and you kind of do this in any order you want essentially have
three main tasks left.
That's set up the remaining class based views.
Set up those HVM l template files and then also set up the or else that pi to point the views to those
new templates we created.
So we have those three things left to do.
There's no right order to do them in.
So they kind of all code depend on each other.
So something will just start off with is the actual class based views themselves and the first thing
you do say from Jingo that use that generic is import instead of your template.
You the list view and then the detail view.
And these are going to be two views that you use all the time.
In fact list view and detail view are pretty much the most common generic views you'll see in other
people's Shango projects.
They're really so useful that people use them all the time.
Now let's try to make the argument and show the motivation of why or create a class school list of view
passen list view and then I will connect it to a model and we just have to say model is equal to and
then the actual name of the model.
And that means that we need to import models.
So I will say from dots in poor models what I could have also done is safe from basic underscore app
import models.
That just means look in the current directory that is a little nicer in case you ever want to change
the actual name of stuff here.
OK.
So you'll say model is equal to models dot school and we will save that and believe it or not that is
all you have to do and you will be provided with a list of every record in this model.
That's it.
That list view does all the work for you OK.
So now I'll show what a detail view looks like.
We'll say class school detail view and then in a detailed view.
And we'll also connect it to model is equal to models.
The school and then let's provide it with a template underscore name so you can see how list view or
detail you are kind of related to the template view and the fact that they can take the same class object
attribute template underscore name.
And this is where we're going to point to the template.
In this case it goes under basic app slash school underscore detail that aged him.
That was a template we just made underneath the basic apps own templates folder basic folder and that
sort of organization makes using the still view analyst view a little easier.
Which is why you sort of see that more common in the real world.
OK.
So we'll leave these like this for now.
Now what we're later going to show is how you can use the Context object name class attribute.
So I'll leave that out for now but we'll come back to this.
We're not finished with this view is that PI file just quite yet but I will save it for now.
OK.
So we still have to work with the templates.
We made those various HVM l files and we still have the work of the Oreilles not pi file to connect
the views to those new templates.
This is a good cutting off point and we'll continue all of this right.
We're relieving off here the next lecture.
Thanks.
And if you have any questions feel free to post the Q&A forums and make sure also check the notes that
Blotz us lecture.